Add task on calculating fees (#295)
etherlinkcom/docs: docs/network/fees.md

title: Fee structure
---

The Etherlink gas price (and therefore the fee for a given transaction) varies based on the activity on the chain.
As activity increases, fees increase, and vice versa.
For information about estimating fees, see [Estimating fees](/building-on-etherlink/estimating-fees).

> Etherlink fees include the cost of running the transaction and writing the transaction to layer 1 but not a voluntary tip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Etherlink fees include the cost of running the transaction and writing the transaction to layer 1. It's not possible to set a voluntary tip or priority fee to increase the chances of a transaction being accepted, if included as part of the transaction parameters it will be ignored.
```

$$
\texttt{0.000004 XTZ} * (150 + \texttt{tx.data.size()} + \texttt{tx.access\_list.size()})
$$

> ## Gas limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Block gas limit
```

> The gas limit, or the maximum total amount of execution fees in a single Etherlink block, is 30 million times the current gas price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The block gas limit, or the maximum total amount of execution fees in a single Etherlink block, is 30 million gas units (i.e. excluding inclusion fees).
```

Transactions that require a higher execution fee fail.

> There is no straightforward way of determining the execution fee for a transaction because estimating transaction fees with the `eth_estimateGas` endpoint the sum of the execution fee and the inclusion fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no straightforward way of determining the execution fee for a transaction because estimating transaction fees with the `eth_estimateGas` endpoint the sum of the execution fee and the inclusion fee is returned as a single amount.
```
